We continue our conversation with Dr. Steven Hairfield,
author of A Metaphysical Interpretation of the Bible.
In this interview, Steven talks about
the tyranny of the Jesuit order throughout history
and the unified story of these times
as laid out in a myriad of religious texts
and historical texts.
He tells us that this is the time of self-mastery
and the time of self-healing.
(soft music)
Most everybody watching this has already seen
our first interview with you from the previous month
and we did get a little bit into
what we're going to talk about now,
which is the book that you've written called,
Metaphysical Interpretations to the Bible.
As a little bit of background, you collect bibles.
Yes.
And off camera we were having a conversation,
it's very interesting, as you say,
some of the bibles you have from times past
are massive tomes, I mean,
15 by 10 by five inches thick.
And then you look at what's in your Motel 6 drawer.
You've got to think, something's been removed. (laughs)
A lot has actually been removed.
And we want to talk,
you talk a lot abut what's been removed
and what's been respun and why
Yes.
these things
have been removed in the metaphysical interpretations.
I hardly even know where to begin,
because this is a massive tome in itself.
Beautiful.
Let's start with, can I just toss out one subject?
And then we'll go into,
you can structure the rest of the conversation.
Help me with that.
One of the subjects is reincarnation.
Which was in earlier editions of the Bible.
I think there's some misinformation,
or misunderstanding as to when that was
stricken from the Bible.
Can you talk about that subject alone as an example?
And why it was stricken?
Well, if it wasn't stricken the early churches
would not have had the level of power they desired to wield,
because if all the humans had been taught,
in fact, Christianity is the only people that are
really taught that you're born and you die and that's it.
And if people really took a moment in time
to consider that what creator would create life
to give it a glimmer or moment in time
and then throw it in a black box forever?
That would be cruel and unusual punishment
and I'm sure the ACLU would have an issue with that.
But it was originally removed so it would
give the church some clout.
They had to have clout because
they created the notion of the idea of God and the devil,
so we had to have a punishment spectrum.
And that if there was reincarnation,
who would give two hoots and a wind to either?
And interestingly enough, the greater faction of the world
believes in reincarnation.
And the smaller faction doesn't.
When we look at older bibles,
my oldest being 1817,
there are no less than 178 references to reincarnation.
And that was just a short time ago,
less than 200 years ago.
That is correct.
In fact, a lot of people don't realize it,
we didn't get an American version of the Bible
until 1901.
Just a little over 100 years ago.
And when you look at that version
versus the original types, King James,
and King James, by the way, has its basis in,
and all religious texts are based on King James,
He's the only one that wasn't killed
because he was a king and the other two prior to that,
one was burned as a heretic.
He was interpreting the Latin text into a German text
so Germans could read it,
he was literally burned at the stake as a heretic.
The second one had his entire research library destroyed
and he was defamed and ended up dying as a pauper.
The third one was King James.
His was based on known texts and renegade texts,
which now gives us the modern-day version of the Bible.
But when the text was originally formed,
they wanted to reword,
which is why only the priests could have a Bible,
the lay people couldn't.
The priests knew that reincarnation was there
and what they ultimately did was weed it out
until today, in the 1901 version of the Bible,
there are only three references
to reincarnation.
Two of them uttered by Christ.
The other one was when King Nebuchadnezzar
was turned, because of his cruelty to his people,
was turned into a, as though a cow grazing
off the grasses of the land for seven lifetimes.
Mm-hmm, seven life times.
So he was pretty special, I guess.
He got to be a cow for seven times.
But there's one of the references right there.
Again, the church was after power.
And that's what they're all about anyway.
I mean, if people really stopped and thought about it,
and I talk about it in the history portion,
is that if you look at the top five wealthiest organizations
in the entire Earth,
guess who's in the top five?
Well, I assume the Catholic Church has got to be
number one or two, right?
It's one of them.
It's actually number four.
Number four, who are the--
The Baptists are in there and the Mormons are in there.
Mormons are number one?
No.
Who's number one?
Can't be the Lutherans.
No, it's actually an American corporation.
But one and two, or one, last I looked is,
when I was doing the research,
number one was an American corporation,
number two was a German corporation,
and then the other three rounding out the top five
were religious organizations.
That's very interesting.
Mormons were number three, Catholics number four,
and Baptists were number five.
That surprises me.
I wouldn't have guessed that.
I would have thought the Catholics were--
Well, they probably were until all of the lawsuits.
Well, that has diminished their value
on the stock market.
But, I was going to say,
it was our understanding that the Vatican,
they own American Express.
You'd be amazed at what they own.
Yes, it's a very interesting kind of spin
it all puts on it.
What's interesting though,
looking at it from a business point of view,
paying your bill off each month so you don't incur interest,
which originally American Express was the only card
that insisted that you pay it off and not incur interest,
then it started moving into the normal system
where it incurs interest and debt
and so forth, like the others.
I thought about it a little.
Now they have your soul indebted to the church
and now your pocketbook and your physical self.
So hey, they're gaining ground, but whatever.
Most people don't know that.
I found that interesting.
So let's go back on that.
So we're talking about, it takes a good deal
of the heaping on of guilt
in order to be able to accrue that amount of wealth.
Absolutely.
You have to keep people paying
for their salvation.
Absolutely.
But you've got to ask yourself a question.
Saving you from what?
Yes.
Yourself?
Yeah.
Hmm.
Hell and damnation.
Ah.
You know what's really funny about that?
And Satan.
Would you give the definition of Satan?
I find this really interesting.
Yes, I will.
If we look into ancient Sanskrit, and Satan as
a very viable word in Sanskrit,
it actually interprets into ego.
The Tempter
Isn't that
interesting?
And you can actually see that written in a Biblical text.
The Tempter or the Taunter.
And when you find it in ancient Sanskrit,
and even in ancient Aramaic,
it actually represents,
you get a definition very literally, the ego.
So what the Catholic Church and any church
is attempting to say to you is
they want to save you from your own ego.
Well, that's not possible either.
Either way they lose.
And even if people really considered it,
even Christians, bless their hearts,
Christ himself says that a house divided
cannot stand against itself.
But when we look at what religion does,
it teaches in division right off the bat,
because you have God and you have the devil.
And people also have to ask themselves another question.
Why would this thing that we term as the creator
create its own archenemy that's so great
it's not even sure it can beat it.
And then it's gonna play a game with the human
as a ping pong ball.
And here these two are having fun.
No.
And the other thing is,
is I can ask the creator to show up
and it does every single second of every single day.
And right here in this interview I say this,
Devil, if you're out there, come on
big, red guy with your pitchfork,
I'll take you on.
You leave everybody else alone.
And you know what?
It never shows up.
It never has and it never will.
But for some people,
it shows up every day.
of their own creation.
By their own creation and their own choosing, absolutely.
That's right.
And that's what it's really all about.
We're actually told,
my teachers taught me in the monasteries,
and we're actually told in every single text,
not just the Bible alone,
that you will get whatever you give your power to.
And if we go back, and we have to understand,
what we're dealing with in today's modern world
is 1,600 years of conditioning,
fear-based conditioning,
and ridicule.
A lot of people don't realize it, but,
I believe it was 1837 in Spain
was when the last torture and death occurred
because of the Inquisitions.
So from 900 ACE to 1835,
at the hands of the Catholic Church,
there were 10 million plus people
that were tortured, dismembered, disfigured,
and killed for being heretics.
Do you realize that Galileo himself
was almost burned at the stake for being a heretic,
because he was the one that realized that the sun
actually did not go around the Earth,
that the Earth went around the sun.
And here's a man that's now considered
one of the fathers of astronomy
that died as a heretical pauper,
beggar on the streets,
at the hands of the Catholic Church.
The original Catholic Church.
And the thing that gave them the greatest grip
is every king and fiefdom,
and I have the book in my office,
I can show it to you.
It's the Loyal Order of the Jesuits.
They are the internal affairs and CIA
of the Catholic Church.
I've read their oath.
It's frightening.
Absolutely.
But they would go to a king and say,
would you like to become wealthy?
And the king, of course, would say yes.
And then what they did is they used their fear tactics
of the devil, going to Hell, and the Catholic Church
could save them.
Then they started levying taxes,
threatening them to lose their land and property.
What are these people in the Dark Ages gonna do?
They either had to go along with the Church
or lose their family,
their livelihoods,
their farms, their money, and their lives.
So for basically 900 plus years,
that's the tactic that the early Catholic Church utilized.
And it was only the Catholic Church until Martin Luther,
Right.
in the late 1400s,
when he literally nailed his treatise
on the door of a Catholic Church in France.
And then the Lutherans were born,
Protestants came about.
But all of them have their basis in the exact same book,
which is used to guilt-trip everybody.
In fact, in India Sri Ramakrishna says
that if you say it to yourself enough that you're a sinner
then you soon will be.
Yes.
Exactly.
Very powerful words.
And so the Catholic Church really,
their bedfellows were all the power structures
that they could possible permeate.
Totally.
Only at the sake of money.
Yes.
Chapter four in that one book
that I just mentioned to you,
the Order of the Jesuit Priests.
And if people really thought about it in a historical sense,
every time an explorer ship came to the New World,
it always had a priest on board.
Guess who he was.
A Jesuit.
Yes.
To establish the wealth and the belief system
of the country that were invading.
Invading is the right word, as a matter of fact.
We just posted the
oath.
We got ahold of one of the original documents
of the Jesuit oath from the early 1900s.
And I believe that the main constituents of that
still exist to this day when taking the oath.
And we posted it to the site recently for people to
peruse and begin an understanding what's actually happened.
How does this, in the broadest terms,
reflect itself in our world today.
Even today in the state that we find the United States in,
in terms of having given away any authentic power
to all externals, not just the church,
in fear of Hell and damnation,
but in terms of the corporate world.
Giving ourselves to the notion that
we're not enough in every single way.
I mean, there's almost no way in which we are enough
if you're to watch a day of television.
Um.
How far does it go?
(laughing) You can not go anywhere
where it isn't there first.
Unless you go to a monastery.
And it saddens me a great deal,
because if we were to finger anything in our world
that has created illusion,
it would be the idea and notion of religion.
That even feeds business.
You would be amazed at what the Catholic Church
and religions have their fingers in.
Do you know that the majority of the orange groves
in the state of Florida are owned by the Mormon church?
I had no idea.
Totally.
Interesting.
And these are all not-for-profit organizations,
and yet you'd be amazed at the businesses
and the real estate that they wield.
I've seen a little bit of that.
Why do you think most of our politicians
belly-up to the religions the way that they do?
The control that it actually has.
Yes.
Financial control.
Contributions, really simply put.
Still control of the wealth,
control of the minds, the hearts, the bodies and souls
of humankind.
How does this relate to to say India for example?
You go into the larger cities of India now
and you're looking at the same patterns
starting to occur in the younger generations.
Bars and discos and consumption and Gap
and you name it,
every franchise on the street.
Now how did this happen?
It's just taken centuries.
for it to all catch up.
But one of the things that people don't realize is
is this is no coincidence in any of this, Regina.
Right, and I'd like you to explain
why there's not.
Well, everything happens for a reason.
And what we don't understand is
we tend to think governments are in control.
Let me maybe seemingly drift off the subject,
but not really.
Let's look at the metaphor behind the idea of Katrina.
What really happened there?
Other than a hurricane wiping out a city?
That was the universe's way of saying,
you're relying on the wrong things.
What you're trusting that will take care of you cannot.
Let's take another one.
Sumatra.
You've got to ask yourself,
out of all of those people that lost their lives
in that massive tsunami and earthquake,
why were they predominantly the children?
Simple, metaphorically,
it was the universe's way of saying,
"Wake up, your innocence is being taken."
Now let's go back to your question of India and China.
The same thing is taking place and yet
we're so caught up in physical nature
that we're not paying attention to what
the metaphorical language is being shown to us.
If Mother Nature or the Creator is going to speak,
it's not going to say, "Hello Regina,
"you'd better duck because here comes the cannon ball."
It's gonna knock you down, so that you don't become hurt.
That's just the way it operates.
It doesn't use linguistics.
So we're being shown all over the place
that what we're trusting is very erroneous.
Because we've been led away from our true selves.
Even if you look at the idea of religion.
We're taught this concept.
God created our world,
it created humankind,
and then it went, "Oh gross, I made a mistake,
"I'm outta here, I'm going to
"somewhere else in the universe."
Excuse me.
You as a parent, you wouldn't do that to your children.
Neither would it to us.
And it didn't.
Which is why Christ said what he said
in the book of Matthew.
When we look at any of the Biblical texts,
and our taping in our last--
Please refer again to Matthew.
You were just a moment ago.
Oh, okay.
In the book of Matthew Christ says,
you look here and you look there for the kingdom of heaven.
Do you yet not realize that it is within you?
And as indicated in our last taping,
if God is in heaven, then that means it's within us,
and every ancient teaching tells us that very idea.
And one of the things that I've done in a metaphysical
interpretation of the Bible is
I've taken the metaphorical language and have laid it out
and said this is what he's telling you.
Even if you look at just something as simple
as the seven points of the Sermon on the Mount.
I don't care what religion says,
you can find it in the Nag Hammadi,
there are only seven parables quoted by Christ.
There are seven meditations of Christ.
There are seven letters to the seven churches.
There's the seven angels, the seven trumpets.
What does all of that mean?
In a nutshell,
he's saying if you wish to be as I,
then clean your energy centers.
The seven points of the Sermon on the Mount,
they're related in a metaphysical interpretation
of the Bible, this is the chakra.
Here's what he said,
here's what he's saying,
here's what it relates to,
and here's why.
You take a translation as example,
"They that seek righteousness shall see the kingdom."
Interestingly enough, the ancient Aramaic word
has two translations.
Righteous or truth.
Those that seek truth will see the kingdom.
That was his message.
And interestingly enough, that's the fourth,
and he's relating that to the heart.
Seek truth in what you feel
and you will find the kingdom.
Because if the kingdom is within you,
what's the heart of the human?
That's God.
Once more, he's leading us right to it.
But what the early churches and the early translations did,
is they exerted everything through the idea
of power and control and led us away.
Let's see, that same great individual,
that Christ said, if the blind follow the blind,
should they both not fall in the ditch?
And what have we done?
We've fallen in a huge crevice.
Absolutely, and is this a part
of a larger hand?
This certainly has moved beyond
the original priests and kings.
Now it permeates all lands, all cultures,
all things.
How does this continue perpetuating itself?
Is this by design or by default?
By design.
And I'm gonna say creator driven
and creator design.
Us humans are interesting.
We can learn things in a very simple context.
Or not.
We seem to choose to learn things the difficult way.
People kind of wig out when they hear me say
what I'm about to.
You're the creator once again, Regina,
and you sent us, as religion puts it,
your only begotten.
Which is balderdash, so to speak.
And what happened?
Known as the Prince of Peace.
Well, he got killed.
Right?
Okay, well, let's see.
You as the creator, "Well, that didn't work.
"Now what do I do?
"Oh, I know.
"Let's give them Hitler, see what he does."
Well, that didn't work.
Okay.
You showed peace.
You showed implicit destruction.
Implicit cruelty, and that didn't work.
"Okay, you'll figure it out
"and I'm gonna watch.
"I've got eternity
"and I know you're gonna catch up to me sooner or later
"so I'm just gonna let you do that on your own."
So what we're seeing in our world,
I do in January of every year,
I do a thing, predictions for the year.
And every year, the person doing the interviewing
will ask me, "If you were to put this in one word,
"what would you call 2008?"
The year of exposure.
And we're seeing it everywhere.
Everywhere.
Alright.
So what comes next?
The realization of truth.
Ah, now we're getting somewhere.
You see, to me what we're actually witnessing
in the world today is precisely what Revelations says,
but it's not the end times.
What we're seeing is the awakening of human
into its true nature,
its own divine nature.
What we're seeing is the divine feminine
re-exerting herself.
You see, when the Catholic Church founded,
it cut the creator in half.
How do we know that?
Something that was suggested to at our last meeting.
They let us create human in our image and in our likeness,
both male and female.
Alright, that says that the creator is both.
So, it's basically androgynous.
It doesn't have either.
So what it did, it split itself into two segments
so it could reunify itself at some future point
through the experience of the epitome of feel
and the epitome of mind.
Alright?
Even if you look anywhere in our world,
there are only two energies.
There's a feminine and there's a masculine.
Night's feminine, day is masculine.
Moon is feminine, sun is masculine.
Air is feminine, ground is masculine.
Water is feminine, land is masculine.
Earth is masculine, space is feminine.
That's all there is.
So what we're seeing is the reassertion,
or the reunification.
Ancient prophecy tells us that society
will go from patriarchal to matriarchal in context.
And what we're seeing is the matriarchal part.
Now,
ancients used to write in matriarchal linguistics,
right-brained metaphor.
What is the average human gonna do
when it wakes up one morning and finds out
its left-brain logic doesn't work?
Celebrate?
Hopefully.
(Regina laughs)
That would be good,
but I don't think so,
I think it'll freak out.
Absolutely, in Revelation it says
there will be three days of darkness.
What Hollywood does is they portray that
as gloom and doom.
Death, destruction.
Well, we overlooked something.
And what we overlooked was is in psychology
they term insanity as darkness.
The point in Revelation is
there's gonna be a period of three days of adjustment
to where the mind and the human
isn't going to function the way that we're
accustomed to functioning.
Because what it's gonna do is in the twinkling of an eye,
is it's going to shift from left-brain schools of thought
to right-brain, matriarchal taking place.
Now that gets into a whole other area,
because you're talking about a shift in polarities.
And there's much talk about a literal shift in polarities
as through Edgar Cayce, for example,
and others.
The Mayans are now saying this is quite literal
and impending, imminent.
It is.
Possibly before 2012 even.
I've got news for you.
Let's talk about it.
Absolutely.
The modern Julian calendar is six years off.
Okay, so.
Christ was actually born,
you gotta remember, the Julian calendar
was based on the birth of Christ.
He was actually born six BC.
Yeah, yeah.
And here's an easy one.
They went from one BC to one AD.
Excuse me.
You dropped a year.
So we know of one.
Well forensic archeologists determined
that there are five others.
So we're actually in the cycle and phase of 2012.
In answer to your question,
there is a metaphorical and a literal representation.
We already know, according to geophysics,
that Earth's magnetic fields are shifting as we speak.
And there's one thing everybody overlooks.
The epiphany of an electromagnetic field is the human.
Well, it would stand to reason
if the poles do shift, as all prophecy,
including the Mayans, indicate.
And by the way, it has occurred 171 times
in the history of the Earth.
Then that would stand to reason
that the living, thinking, breathing thing
that can realize at all is going to make a shift also.
And by the way,
that occurs every 25,000 years.
Precession of the equinox.
Did a radio show earlier in the year,
I believe in March, it was called,
Global Warning.
Not global warming.
Even ancient prophecy says that the Earth
will become so hot that you will not
be able to walk on it with your bare feet.
Well, look around.
What's the cause?
What's the highest, visual, seeable vibration
that you can think of?
I don't know what context to even put it in.
Fire.
Yes. Yes, okay.
Heat.
Noah's flood.
Yeah.
Never existed.
Never happened.
At all.
There's no geological proof.
No deluge.
No.
There's not enough water on planet Earth
to create a global inundation.
Period, end of story.
Science, geology,
has verified that.
So what occurred?
Simple.
Metaphorically,
water represents spirit.
The idea of spirit.
So there was a spiritual inundation.
So the metaphor says that during periods
of spiritual inundation,
you must rise above.
Jesus walking on water.
He rose,
he allowed spirit to lift his physical self.
Just as Noah did.
Now let's go back into the dynamics
that are going on today.
We're going through the same spiritual inundation.
We're matching what the Maya say.
There's only one difference this individual has
than what archeology says.
And I'm not an archeologist,
I fully admit that.
When we look at the Mayan calendar,
it shows Quetzalcoatl descending into darkness.
What people are saying is that's what we're gonna do
in our modern era.
No.
I believe the thing that they've missed
is that's that Quetzalcoatl and his generations did.
They descended into darkness.
This is all of birth, of rising us back
into our own true divine nature.
What's now, if we go through the entire Biblical text,
that's exactly what Revelations is telling us.
This is your experience.
This is what you're gonna go through.
And this is what it's going to give you.
I challenge any human out there
to read the very last chapter of the book of Revelation.
And it flat says that there will never, ever be
darkness.
That you will all live in the light.
The light of understanding.
The true divine sense of human.
You see, we go through cycles of living
in the idea of limitation.
Thus the idea of religion.
Here's your limitation.
And then what it's going to do
is release you and free you.
And to your true, infinite, divine self.
Why do we live in limitation in the first place?
We have a point of reference.
When people come to me and they say,
"Steven, I would like to learn as a monk."
I ask them one question,
"If you were a drop of water
"and you landed into the ocean,
"could you pull yourself out?"
And if they say anything other than yes,
I will not assist them.
Here's why.
More times than not people say to me,
"Well, why would you want to?"
Can't work with that person.
Secondly, "No, I cannot."
So why ask that?
If you cannot understand your own self
as who you are, then you have no point of reference.
Most people, when this cycle finally
goes full impact,
they will have no point of reference.
Thus the three days of insanity.
Yet there are many people,
every monk in this world will have a point of reference.
Care to share?
Self.
Okay.
Their fingerprint.
Yes.
Their own identity of being.
But they don't identify with bank account,
clothes, hair, cars, house.
Right.
Those are lost.
You know, as you were speaking,
what was occurring to me,
is the people that would be seeking your help,
because they want to go on another path, another journey,
that of the monk,
and you ask this question about the drop of water,
can you separate yourself from the sea?
What is occurring to me is where now,
there's almost a misunderstanding the other direction.
That we are in a unified field.
We're in a field of collective conciousness,
that this is the right way,
this is the only way and what's happened,
in my mind, is that the whole aspect of self
is now being, again, sort of buried.
But for a different reason and a different way.
You see what I'm--
Absolutely.
And so people would actually believe,
"No, I'm not supposed to separate myself
"from the body of water, I am one with that sea.
"We're all one."
So that could have been a question that would be
challenging for someone if they had already
bought in part way part way to that concept.
It was Richard Bach, I believe, puts it best.
That the human experience is though
a wave cresting.
And as a drop of water falls away from the wave,
it ultimately lands back in the sea.
And in a moment in time,
they have individual experience,
to never recognize itself again.
The idea of divine nature,
and the idea of individuality,
is recognizing individual nature
in the full consciousness of being.
My teachers could not have contacted me
directly from India had they not
had individual recognition.
Understand that when we talk about individual nature,
it's not about separation.
It's about unification with a whole,
but realizing you are in a divine context,
part of the collective,
and empowering the entire dynamic
of the collective.
You have your
fingerprint.
Yes, ma'am.
And that's exactly where
Steven's coming from.
And not to forget
that we each have our fingerprint.
This is not to lose ourself in the whole.
That is correct.
So when people say that this is,
whoa, we're gonna ll lose it,
good luck.
Is my idea.
When you look at monks in a monastery,
they all shave their heads,
and they all wear the same clothing.
Why?
It's to recognize individual nature
in the idea of mass consciousness.
Because they all have individuality,
from the external sense they all look alike,
but they are totally different.
Within the context of their own selves.
You see, the creator wouldn't have given us
independent, individual idea of individual consciousness
to put it into a big pool.
To where it would not be able to--
Indistinguishable.
How can you work on something that's
indistinguishable from the rest?
That is correct.
But as we get linked fully in the consciousness,
and we're seeing that today,
it's to lift it
as individuals.
When you look at the Parthenon,
one of the oldest still-standing buildings in our world,
the pillars are individual,
but collectively they've withstood the test of time.
It's amazing.
And that's also part of it.
It's not to live in antagonistic nature with each other.
If we really look at the idea of wholeness,
you and I are implicitly equal,
along with every individual.
The only difference is
is how we're shaped and our paint job.
But internally, we're all exactly identical.
And that's the only attribute of us that is.
Is the organs.
And we're all that special.
And we're coming to that realization.
In fact, one of the things presented
in a metaphysical interpretation
is my understanding of the four Gospels.
Matthew represents physical self.
Mark represents mental self.
Luke represents emotional self.
And John is the representation of spiritual self.
Those four represent the idea of Holy Trinity
in union.
Father is the soul.
Excuse me, Holy Ghost is the soul.
Father is the guiding input of the mind and emotions.
And the Son is the body.
That's actually what it is.
It's not this other amazing mumbo jumbo
that the religions have thrown out there.
At all.
So you wrote this book as a document to empower.
I mean, obviously this is to help people break free
of their chains of dogma.
Yes, ma'am.
And. I'm sorry, go ahead.
It's also to let you know who you are.
Once you realize your true nature,
and you operate in that context,
Regina, there's nothing you cannot do.
Nothing can bind you, nothing can hold you.
You become as air.
And my challenge would be is allow me to see
anyone that can grab air and hold it.
Nothing will ever control that individual again.
And you see, that's what the churches
and the governmental entities of our world
do not want us to know.
And it seems to be ratcheting up by the day.
On the ground, in the trenches, as people start
asking greater questions.
Better questions.
It seems as though the authorities of various kinds
come down even harder.
They are coming down.
And we're seeing that everywhere.
I did a documentary
a while back, it's supposed to be released this fall.
And one of the things that was posed by myself
in September 2006,
were these things.
What in our world is actually working?
Are our governments working?
Are our corporations of the world working?
Are our monetary systems working?
Are our medical professions working?
Our educational systems working?
Are our religions working?
No.
To all of those.
Right.
And that's not to put fear into people,
it's to get them to realize that there's an absolutely
wonderful awakening going on in our world.
Awakening to the truth of who we are.
The reason for the book was to maybe put it in warp drive,
to help it along.
To say, this is what the ancients wanted us to know.
This is what Christ himself wanted you
as an individual to know.
And what I've heard from people is
they can pick up that book and they can open it
on any page and there's an answer
to a question that they have.
Was that a fluke?
No.
Did I plan that?
You brought it through.
Yes.
And it's unifying.
It's unifying on many levels.
All levels.
Yes, on all levels.
It's a work of unification.
Which is why in that book,
the idea of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John
were broken down into the four factions that we did.
And by the way,
the task offered to the early people
formalizing the Bible
was to select four males.
It had to be four direct disciples to Jesus.
Interestingly enough,
two of them aren't.
Matthew and John are the only two that were.
Mark and Luke were apostles to Paul.
So how did they end up in there?
Hmm, who knows.
But, no accident.
They were chosen with purpose to address
your physical experience, your mental experience,
your emotional experience, and your spiritual experience.
And how to unify them.
What is the significance of the Gospel of Thomas?
Probably one of the greatest gospels of all time.
Yes.
And we don't find that, again, in the Gideon version.
No, of course not.
So let's talk about Gospel of Thomas
for a moment.
There were actually four people that originally
journeyed to India.
There was Christ.
And by the way, Joseph of Arimathea was his uncle.
And it was well known that he was trader
and travelled to the Middle East all the time.
And even when we look at the notion
of the three wise men,
they came from the Far East.
Whoa, so there's already an eastern connection.
So Joseph of Arimathea took
Jesus,
Jesus' second cousin, John the Baptist,
Thomas, one of his childhood friends,
and his promised betrothed, Mary,
they all went to India together.
They're all written about over there.
And the reason Thomas got the name of Doubting Thomas
is because he questioned his teachers more than anybody did.
'Cause he wanted to know.
And in fact, there's not much written about him,
Thomas himself, in the Bible.
But the Gospel of Thomas,
when Christ was
crucified, so to speak,
and that's a story in itself,
all of the apostles were hunted down
with the exception of a few.
Thomas, Mary, and Peter went into Egypt
and founded the Gnogstic sect.
And the Gospel of Thomas is found in the Nag Hammadi,
or Gnostic text.
Along with the Gospel of Mary.
And of course, Peter having a big ego,
decided to take off and create his own thing.
The Catholic Church, which we now know.
But in the Gospel of Thomas,
in fact, almost everything that you read
how Jesus spoke in the Bible
comes out of the Gospel of Thomas.
'Cause that's how he spoke.
But in the Gospel of Thomas you'll find
more truth in that than you will
in modern day Bible.
Why?
Because it was never interpretted
the way that the Bible was.
In fact,
coincidentally,
it was hidden in the Nag Hammadi Valley
in Egypt until 1947 and somebody went,
hey , what's this?
After the Bible had been formed.
So fortunately, it got saved.
Same with the Dead Sea Scrolls, 1945.
But those books are literal.
But in the Gospel of Thomas, you have
a literal interpretation of events and what happened.
But you'll also find the Gospel of Philip,
the Gospel of James, Jesus' brother,
they're all in the Nag Hammadi text.
And interestingly enough,
they don't dispute each other
like the biblical texts do.
They just don't support what the Bible says.
That's why those Bibles
are so skinny.
Yes, ma'am.
And it's interesting,
because you put a totally different
right-brain understanding to
all of the things we're taught, even in Sunday school,
for example.
All of the stories that have been used to keep us in line,
to help us to conform more,
to become good citizens.
It's actually designed to keep you away
from your birthright.
Exactly.
That's a very good way to put it.
Yes, ma'am.
And it's no longer working.
Which is the truth.
So this is something,
obviously a great value for people to dive into.
Especially if they've been indoctrinated
at any point in their life into the Christian church
and its modern definition,
and the enslavement that that brings with it.
And meanwhile, you haven't just,
it's not as though you've only studied
this particular lineage.
You have histories with a lot of people.
You have histories with the Cree,
with the Blackfoot,
with the Mayan.
And how does this,
well I would like to, even though we've already been there,
talking about Revelations a bit,
take all of this together,
all of their takes on it,
and the Hopi,
and bring this together
as what you're seeing as a unified understanding
of the time we're in.
And the time we're bridging into.
(Steven sighs)
That's a big question.
Well, actually, it's a very intriguing one.
So here we go.
We're born in this world to become masters
of our own ship.
We're all coming to,
the only reason we
inhabit a body,
is so that we can
be god in the flesh.
And I believe all ancient texts,
and the reason we go through the cycles of 25,000 years,
and even when we look at the Hopi Prophecies
of the Legend of the Two Suns and the Blue Sun,
what they're talking about is a growth process
that each individual will do
throughout eternity until they become
like the Christ or like the Buddha.
Until the become a living god in the flesh.
And when we look at all of those texts,
they share with us the journey
and what's going to occur.
We could literally say in the period we're in,
looking at it through the Mayan prism
of the idea of 2012 and literally say
this is graduation time.
Who has achieved, who has not?
And Christians are gonna be really surprised
when they, after reading the Left Behind series,
at who's gonna be left behind.
But what does that in itself mean?
It's not like some are dumber than others.
It just means some people break the bonds of birth and death
as all ancient text shares with us.
It even says that in Mark 13 in the biblical text.
That once you attain that godhood,
then the idea of birth and death is no longer
a thing of relevance.
One of the things I love to share with people is
would you like to spend all eternity
in the skin that you have now?
If they say no, they have their answer.
If they say yes, they also have their answer.
And interestingly and intriguingly enough,
that's what all the traditions teach.
That we can overcome, not the body,
but we can overcome the pull of what
the body creates for us.
The body today is in dominance.
What we're told all the texts is
there becomes a point where the soul is in dominance.
Now here's the intriguing part.
A soul always is in dominance,
it just allows us to think we are.
'Cause, you see, it's gonna live forever.
Yes, we can have the illusion of separation
as long as we wish.
As long as we choose.
And interestingly enough also,
medical science says the body regenerates itself
every 18 months.
There's no reason for it to age.
Once we bring it all into unification
as all the texts tells us,
but making the journey is not an easy one
'cause there's many things that...
Myself, lived in a monastery.
No desire.
Got into the world of desire.
Ended up overcoming that.
And because of that,
I attained a mastership over my own self,
because that's only as far as mastership can go.
Once we achieve that, now our journey is free.
And it is about freedom,
it's about realizing completely who we are
and always have been.
As far as birth and death and my own sense goes?
We'll know when that time comes,
whenever that is if it ever is.
And that's the only way we'll ever know,
but I can certainly assure you of this,
but for the most part, time is totally irrelevant to me.
So I know that unification is already there.
So if we look at the idea of the monastic teachings.
If we look at the Upanishads, the Vadas,
the Buddha Sutras.
If we look at the Dead Sea Scrolls and Nag Hammadi
and if we look at the Cree and Blackfoot and Maya
and Hopi traditions.
They're all pointing us at the same direction.
There's a point in time that occurs every 25,000 years
where there's a real awakening for those that choose.
When you choose, you have a journey,
and that's what Revelations in the Bible
actually relates to us.
Here's what's going to be your experience
as you release these charges from yourself.
And when you release these charges from yourself,
then you have the culmination of the legend
of the Hopi Blue Sun.
Tthat's the full healing of every aspect of self.
When we look at the idea of the pole shifts
offered by prophets.
Sure it affects the Earth, but more importantly
it affects the human.
And I believe all those texts share with us
the same idea.
So in a world that we're looking at today,
you may see conflict.
You may see global war.
But with these I see
is the birthing of a new human
coming into existence.
And that's what all texts tells us.
That's my understanding.
And who are we?
God. We're all divine.
We're awakening to that higher nature.
It doesn't mean we forgo the body.
It means we live it in our reality through the body.
That's who we are.
We're time immemorial.
We've been on every planet
and every star system that anybody
could ever conceive of.
We're just another seed that's awakening
to that higher nature,
so that we ourselves can travel beyond here
through all eternity once more.
And you're not saying this as a
result of a one, single insight into meditation,
but as a body of understanding
after 37 years, as you say, of turning over
every stone and leaf and your own insights.
One of the fascinating things to me
is when you do that and you study prophecy
for all of that period of time
and you've studied from different parts of the world.
There can be no coincidence that the Hopi, the Cree,
the Blackfoot, the Maya, the Middle Eastern text,
Far Eastern text all say the same thing.
And they're leading us to one point.
And that point, we all that can hear or see this, today,
have the honor and privilege of seeing where we stand
in the spectrum of time.
Are you, or are you not,
living through your own divine nature?
If you are, bless you.
If not, bless you.
Your journey's just a little longer, that's all.
Thank you.
My pleasure.
To delve much deeper into Dr. Hairfield's work,
you can purchase a copy of his work,
A Metaphysical Interpretation of the Bible.
In addition, he conducts tours to India each year
for those who wish to have a personal experience.
I find him to have an unusually broad
and accurate grasp on the human condition.
Until next time, thanks for watching
Conscious Media Network.
(soft music)